All right.
So let's train our model.
So the first step is we're going to prepare our X train and X tests and y train and weightiest kind
of data set.
So let's get started.
So first that is another case specify our X train that will be equal to our training but we're not going
to just simply specify all our rows.
However we can specify the columns only accepting except the first column which set the target column.
So we're going to do is going to select one and all.
OK.
And in addition to that we're just going to divide by 255 just to do kind of you know normalization
the beginning.
Second step they're going to specify OK why train.
Will be equal to.
Again my training but I actually needs the column number zero.
That's all I need.
OK great.
Let's do the exact same thing.
All right let's do the same for the testing data sets.
So we're going to do we're just going to copy this.
OK put it here.
And it's of chain which is going to call it tests.
And here we're going to call it test and instead of training we're going to call it testing instead.
And we're just going to sort of test it is going to do this thing as well.
And that's pretty much all what I need.
All right let's run this.
All right.
So now we're going to go.
The second step is we wanted to.
So now we have a training dataset.
We have a testing datasets but what we need to do that we need to develop or use We'll call it the validation
dataset.
All right validation data set.
It's kind of a data set that we used during training but it can be used to help the model generalize
simply.
We want the model to avoid overfitting.
Mainly specifically fitting the data to the training data sets and avoiding generalization.
OK so what if instead of doing this what we need to do that we need to do the validation data set every
once in a while to actually validate that we are heading in and the model is actually generalizing as
we go.
All right.
We're going to do in this we're going to use the frame as killer and we can use a test train to split.
So let's do this.
We're going to do from Skillern that model underscores selection.
All right.
We're going to call imports and train underscored test underscore splits.
It looks fine and run it looks good next step is we're going to use our trained test pilots.
And you have done that before so just let's simply copy the commands.
It's basically train splits.
They're going to use our extreme or why train.
You can specify the ratio centers specify 20 percent going to be for the testing and then random state
is just going to specify if you guys want to match my results we're just going to put put one two three
four five or whatever five or 1 or whatever.
And here going to specify or exchange X validate why train and why validate.
All right let's run it.
All right.
We're good to go.
Okay perfect.
The next step is we're going to take our training testing and validation data and put them in a form
that we can actually feed to our deep network.
OK so now we have all our data in an array format.
OK.
And a kind of a matrix format.
What we need to do that we need to reshape our data to be in a form of twenty eight by twenty eight
by one.
OK.
This is actually a very critical point because that's the form that our converged convolutional neural
network was going to be accepting the data.
All right.
So in order to do this are just going to simply copy the codes that perform this.
So if you guys can see here we have our take our exchange.
We can do V-shape just to reshape our data and then we're going to simply take our Eckstine cheap zero
and we're going to reshape it to 28 by 28 by 1 or 8.
We simply we're going to go and reshape all out arrays to make it and this kind of an image format that
would help us to simply feed all our data is going to all of feed all our images and the conclusion
of our network.
OK let's run it.
All right.
Looks great.
And what we need to do there are actually let's take a look at extreme and let's take a look at the
shape list of let's see OK or interesting that looks great.
So now we have 48000 samples and each one of them is twenty eight by twenty eight by one or eight which
means that basically it's a greyscale image that's 28 by 28.
All right.
Let's make sure there's whether the X state X tests x that the same X that shape looks good ten thousand
samples and we have X validate as well that shape.
All right perfect.
So now we have our training.
If you guys recall we divided them to 40000 samples of train and 12000 samples to validate and we still
have 10000 samples that we had before which is kind of a separate file that we have for testing.
All right so now we divided all our all our data and I think we are pretty much ready for training.
OK.
So how can we train our model.
Right.
This is pretty interesting.
And let's create a couple of newer yourselves in here.
All right.
So the first step is we're going to import an open source neural network library that we call it.
Chris Chris is really powerful.
We're going to see how can we simply build in like you know like an advanced convolutional neural network
all the stuff that we learned in literally like 10 10 12 lines of code is really simple.
All right.
So first of all let's import tariffs and import Karris first up.
And then here we're just using tensor flowback back end which is great.
And then the next step is that we're going to import simply our sequential convolutional layers Max
spooling layers.
Dancing dancing as well operations flattening drop out along with the optimizers.
Okay okay.
Let's see what are these so let's copy them and let's take a look.
So we imported carrots.
OK that's great.
And then the next step is we're going to import carrots models.
I'm going to use sequential.
We're going to show you how can we use.
Why do we need to use sequential which is in essence we're going to build our our network in a kind
of a sequential form.
Well again I start to build our convolutional lair first followed by the max pooling followed by let's
say drop out followed by flattening and followed by let's say the dense would our complete of fissioning
an hour afterwards.
Well a fully connected network afterwards we're going to say from Carousel players that we'll import
our con to a D.
As you guys guessed it it's simply used for the convolution.
Max pooling.
You get to use the dense to create our fully connected network flatten to flatten our features and the
drop outs actually perform drop out and then we're going to import the optimizers which is Adam optimizer.
And we're going to use simply the tensor board just for callbacks.
OK you guys can ignore ignore this.
I'm not going to go into all the details of of of that.
And let's start by building our model.
So the first step is that we're going to build our model in a kind of a sequential form.
So we're going to do with going around and see and model and we get a call sequential here.
OK.
All right that's a first step.
And then we're going to start building on top of it.
All right.
So what we're going to do is we're going to call OK CNN on the school tomorrow and the first step if
they're going to add our convolutional layer first.
OK.
So simply we're going to use our corn to the that we imported before.
So we're going to use corn to the right and then we're going to specify and that's very actually interesting
and important too.
First we're going to specify how many kernels we're going to be applying how many feature detectors
we may be using.
So 32 each feature detector get the dimensions of three and three.
All right.
Perfect.
And then afterwards we're gonna specify our input shape so that our input shape we need to specify what's
what's our input look like.
So what inputs action image that's 28.
Why 28.
Oh I'm sorry.
So twenty eight by twenty eight by one.
That's our image right.
And next we wanted to specify our activation function or activation function.
We're going to be equal to really two activation function.
All right.
Let's make sure that we have all the rights elements in here.
So he specified our kernels we have 32 kernels size three by three or input shape is 28 28 by 1 which
is the size of our image.
And then we specify the really the activation function.
All right let's run this.
OK it says can to the is not defined my apologies.
So this should be uppercase.
OK now we're good.
All right.
The next step is we're going to add the max pooling layer.
All right let's specify our pooling layer.
So here we're going to call CNM underscore underscore model and we're going to add simply our pooling
layer we can actually imported this by getting Max pool to the game.
So Max pulling to the.
And here we need to specify our pool size.
We're going to call pool size equals to.
And here we're going to call it 2 and 2 which basically the size of our max pulling function.
All right.
Let's make sure that everything is good CNN models and Max pooling.
Looks great.
Let's run it.
OK Lance perfect.
The next step is we want to flatten our our model actually flatten is really simple.
So CNN underscored the model and what we're going to do with him in ads is flattening layers of Flaten
flattened as you can see here that's just too flat out features into one single array so it can actually
feel it or fully dense fully connected neural network in neural network.
All right we're good.
The next step is we're going to add our function.
So see an underscore tomorrow.
We're going to and again let's add our dance.
OK.
And we need to specify our dimensions simply.
So here we're going to call our output dimension equal to 32 and we are going to specify our activation
equals to really activation.
This is simply the layer it's kind of the hidden layer that we're going to include in between between
the outputs because the final output has to be obviously our 10 classes that we took to specify.
OK.
So we're just going to copy this.
We're going to add another layer that will be the output layer.
So the open dimension here has to be 10.
OK and then when we activation because we need to specify kind of a 1 out of 10 classes.
So instead of using the elu would guess you can use the sigmoid function sigmoid function instead.
All right let's run this.
OK it looks good looks good.
All right.
That's pretty much all what we need to develop or build our layers one by one.
The next step is that we want to simply specify our our training how can we how we're going to be turning
this basically network.
OK let's create some cells in here.
The next step is we're going to use simply our Adam optimizer.
OK for emetics who are going to be our accuracy and we're going to use what we call it the last function
going to be loss categorial cross entropy we use cross categorial because we are simply categorizing
our data dataset out of out of out of 10 samples simply.
It's not like a binary binary across entropy.
You can use binary if you only have 0 or 1 but he would have to get the girl across entropy and again
now just just going to compile simply our model and the last step that we wanted to fit our model.
So in order to do this we're going to do specify first how many epochs we want to run our model.
So epochs here let's say we specify 50.
For example when you say epix that means how many times are going to be the presenting or presenting
our data set and updating the weights as we go.
OK.
All right.
The next step is we're going to create or fits basically apply the fit method to our CNN models are
going to call CNN model that fits.
And then we're going to use our training data exchange.
Why train.
And then we're going to specify all the number of epochs and the validation data as well.
All right let's take a look at so here if you guys go into the documentation you can simply copy the
information here
get.
All right.
So here we have our exchange we have white train her batch size specified this from 112 can specify
whatever number you want.
Number of epoxied was post-fight a 50.
We can't boast how many like you know like our kind of information you need while you're training we're
running through the training data and validation data.
We use x and y validate just to do a kind of a cross-validation as we will.
Right.
OK let's run this model.
Looks great.
Let's run this a looks fine.
Here we fit the model.
And actually that's how we are performing the training.
All right.
As you can see here we're going through with one out of 50 and we that's how we pretty much treat our
model.
OK.
So every time we have to look and check the accuracy how the accuracy is going it is going around 70
percent or now we move forward it's actually going to point to and we'll see.
No it keeps getting better and better and we actually see how can we even evaluate our model moving
forward.
And how do we test our model.
Right.
Or just it will take a while to train you 350 epochs.
So that's going to skip through it and and see you in a bit.
All right.
So we're back.
So after 50 epochs you can see that the accuracy at each point 9 5 percent which is pretty good assuming
that we only use 3 to 32 kernels and we use again Max putting two by two and we didn't even use any
dropouts or any additional feature enhancements.
Right.
That's pretty much all what we have for the section.
I hope you guys enjoyed it and see you in the evaluation section.